This software is a free distribution of the image foresting
transform [1].  

The image foresting transform (IFT) is a graph-based approach to the
design of image processing operators based on connectivity. The IFT
defines a minimum-cost path forest in a graph, whose nodes are the
image pixels and whose arcs are defined by an adjacency relation
between pixels. The cost of a path in this graph is determined by an
application-specific path-cost function, which usually depends on
local image properties along the path--- such as color, gradient, and
pixel position. The roots of the forest are drawn from a given set of
seed pixels.  For suitable path-cost functions, the IFT assigns one
minimum-cost path from the seed set to each pixel, in such a way that
the union of those paths is an oriented forest, spanning the whole
image. The IFT outputs three attributes for each pixel: its
predecessor in the optimum path, the cost of that path, and the
corresponding root (or some label associated with it). 

The input image and the three attributes above are put together as an
annotated image. The software is implemented exactly as described in
the paper [1]. It offers adjacency relations (adjacency.c), labeling
functions (seeds.c), and path-cost functions for algorithms 2 and 3 of
the paper (genift.c). It is important to note that not all
optimizations described in the paper are included here, since the idea
is to provide a generic tool for people interested in studying the
IFT. One can make some functions even more efficient by specializing
them for different operators. Some hints are told in the respective .c
files.

Different image operators can be designed by choosing an
application-specific path-cost functions and applying a local
processing to the annotated image. The software illustrates the IFT
for watershed transform, boundary tracking, EDT, multiscale
skeletonization, morphological reconstructions (global and local), and
geodesic path computation. The same examples of the paper and some
others are provided here in order to teach how to use the generic IFT
algorithms. These examples can be found in the ./examples directory.

In order to verify the examples one can just type <make example>, then
type <./example>, and use any image program, such as gimp and xv, to
visualize the output. For example: To see image segmentations based on
the IFT-watershed transform do

cd ./examples
make watershed
../bin/watershed
gimp *.pgm

Some examples create files in the LaTex format. Any need for
assistance, please contact me <afalcao@ic.unicamp.br>.

Enjoy the IFT.

Bibliography

1. A.X. Falcão, J. Stolfi, R.A. Lotufo, The Image Foresting Transform:
Theory, Algorithms, and Applications, IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 19--29, Jan. 2004.
